README.md, before:

This is my practice camp where I improve my machine learning craft.

## The Goal is to: Master ML to solve advanced real-world problems; with deep theoretical understanding to conduct research in a chosen niche.

As of September 2025, this is translated into two specific goals:
1. Solve an advanced real problem with frontier ML techniques (e.g. winning a hackathon, or personal project). For details see level 3-4 project [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bx4BYXOE9SQ&t=186s).
2. Generate a novel ML research idea, implement and communicate it (e.g. writing a paper, or big essay). 

## Solution
The solution is **consistency and seriousness of practice**. It is divided into [theoretical](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Theoretical%20Practice) and [technical](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Technical%20Practice) parts.

I publish this because, besides the value of signaling, I work better under public accountability.

Below I describe my learning approach and some additional details.

### Learning Algorithm
1. **Understand** important concepts, techniques.
2. **Explain** them in my own words (usually means making notes/ flashcards).
3. **Apply** techniques (for concepts generate examples and see how theory plays out).
4. **Remember** both. Theory through flashcards and feynman lessons, practice through consistent exercises (and big projects in the long-run).

[Theoretical practice](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Theoretical%20Practice) is mainly divided into uploading my flashcard practices and [feynman lessons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_f-qkGJBPts) explaining whatever important concepts I'm trying to learn.

Whereas [technical practice](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Technical%20Practice) is either Kaggle competitions, exercises from textbooks (e.g. Hands-on ML book by Geron Aurelien) or other random sources. As I mature in my skill I'll focus more on completing longer complex projects.

### Details
The main idea is to treat ML and my training of it with similar attitude as professional athletes treat their [practices](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1V1b314FLv4bn0KbauqvUa?si=dF9lIgVwTFWTmyyWRURUEA&t=4599). (Here are the main books I used to understand what good practice is: Peak, The Art of Learning, Get better at anything, and Ultralearning.)

I also try to heavily triage what I consider relevant theory and techniques to practice based on my goals. (For example, if you want to be an alignment researcher, unlikely you need to know cutting edge computer vision techniques.)

Some of my previous ML work was: doing CS50ai, Andrew Ng's ML Specialialization, and a personal project of making a Paul Graham RAG and connecting it to MCP.

Commit message:

Update README with improved description and work log
Added a weekly work log section for tracking progress.

README.md, after:

This is my practice camp for improving my machine learning craft.

## The Goal is to: Master ML to solve advanced real-world problems; with deep theoretical understanding to conduct research in a chosen niche.

As of September 2025, this is translated into two specific goals:
1. Solve an advanced real problem with frontier ML techniques (e.g. winning a hackathon, or personal project). For details see level 3-4 project [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bx4BYXOE9SQ&t=186s).
2. Generate a novel ML research idea, implement and communicate it (e.g. writing a paper, or big essay). 

## Solution
The solution is **consistency and seriousness of practice**. It is divided into [theoretical](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Theoretical%20Practice) and [technical](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Technical%20Practice) parts.

I publish this because, besides the value of signaling, I work better under public accountability.

Below I describe my learning approach and some additional details.

### Learning Algorithm
1. **Understand** important concepts, techniques.
2. **Explain** them in my own words (usually means making notes/ flashcards).
3. **Apply** techniques (for concepts generate examples and see how theory plays out).
4. **Remember** both. Theory through flashcards and feynman lessons, practice through consistent exercises (and big projects in the long-run).

[Theoretical practice](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Theoretical%20Practice) is mainly divided into uploading my flashcard practices and [feynman lessons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_f-qkGJBPts) explaining whatever important concepts I'm trying to learn.

Whereas [technical practice](https://github.com/Mark-Kagach/learning_ml/tree/24fe7c69d1fcb40b3a853f8659e0e7caa4388e28/Technical%20Practice) is either Kaggle competitions, exercises from textbooks (e.g. Hands-on ML book by Geron Aurelien) or other random sources. As I mature in my skill I'll focus more on completing longer complex projects.

### Details
The main idea is to treat ML and my training of it with similar attitude as professional athletes treat their [practices](https://open.spotify.com/episode/1V1b314FLv4bn0KbauqvUa?si=dF9lIgVwTFWTmyyWRURUEA&t=4599). (Here are the main books I used to understand what good practice is: Peak, The Art of Learning, Get better at anything, and Ultralearning.)

I also try to heavily triage what I consider relevant theory and techniques to practice based on my goals. (For example, if you want to be an alignment researcher, unlikely you need to know cutting edge computer vision techniques.)

Some of my previous ML work was: doing CS50ai, Andrew Ng's ML Specialialization, and a personal project of making a Paul Graham RAG and connecting it to MCP.

## Weekly Work Log
**Sep 2025**
- W36:
- W37:
- W38:
- W39:
- W40:

**Oct 2025**
- W41:
- W42:
- W43:
- W44:

**Nov 2025**
- W45:
- W46:
- W47:
- W48:

**Dec 2025**
- W49: 
- W50: 
- W51: 
- W52:
