# Goal

Finished first two chapters of AI modern approach, they give good mental models for understanding the whole field. 

While my focus is on ML, DL, RL, I think it make sense to have __some clue__ (very exact word choice) about other subfields of AI. 

Think: search in simple and complex environments, adversarial search, constraint satisfaction problems, logical agents, knowledge representation, automated planning, decision making under uncerainty in simple and complex enviroments (bayesian networks, markov models), robotics, computer vision.

__Some clue__ is exactly the level of understanding I want to have. I'm not interested in deep understanding of those subfields because my goal is to focus on ML,DL,RL. But it also seems wrong to have absolutely no idea what those subfields are about.

So it seems to me that a good balance is to spend next 3-5 days understanding their main ideas, but not go into details. The end-goal is to be able to explain those subfields' main ideas simply and how they fit-in with all of the AI field.

How would I do that? AI modern approach seems like the right source. Read most chapters intros and summaries. Make notes on them, use some llms and other online sources. Maybe also listen to notebook lm audio versions of chapters.

Once I'm done with that, I should have both solid mental models for the whole AI field, and general understanding of most subfiels. That should be enough to confidently jump deeply into ML,DL,RL, which would be the next step in syllabus.

(And I'm continuing with reading/listening to non-fiction books (anything that is not a textbook) about the history of the field and anything related when eating, driving, working out. [Getting 25 books under my belt❤️](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/01/kushner-can-make-mid-east-peace-because-hes-read-25-books.html) (in no particular order):
1. The Alignment Problem
2. Genesis
3. Life 3.0
4. The Scaling Era
5. The Big Score
6. The Master Algorithm
7. Genius Makers
8. Supremacy: AI, ChatGPT, and the race that will change the world
9. AI: A Guide for Thinking Humans
10. The Quest for AI: History of Ideas and Achievements
11. Architects of Intelligence
12. Human Compatible
13. AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World 
14. If anyone builds it, everyone dies
15. The Worlds I see
16. AI 2041
17. Atlas of AI
18. A Brief History of Intelligence
19. Nexus
20. ✅Empire of AI
21. ✅Sam Altman, The Optimist
22. ✅Superintelligence ‒ Nick Bostrom
)
