# Goal

Finished first two chapters of AI modern approach, they give good mental models for understanding the whole field. 

While my focus is on ML, DL, RL, I think it make sense to have __some clue__ (very exact word choice) about other subfields of AI. 

Think: search in simple and complex environments, adversarial search, constraint satisfaction problems, logical agents, knowledge representation, automated planning, decision making under uncerainty in simple and complex enviroments (bayesian networks, markov models), robotics, computer vision.

__Some clue__ is exactly the level of understanding I want to have. I'm not interested in deep understanding of those subfields because my goal is to focus on ML,DL,RL. But it also seems wrong to have absolutely no idea what those subfields are about.

So it seems to me that a good balance is to spend next 3-5 days understanding their main ideas, but not go into details. The end-goal is to be able to explain those subfields' main ideas simply and how they fit-in with all of the AI field.

How would I do that? AI modern approach seems like the right source. Read most chapters intros and summaries. Make notes on them, use some llms and other online sources. Maybe also listen to notebook lm audio versions of chapters.

Once I'm done with that, I should have both solid mental models for the whole AI field, and general understanding of most subfiels. That should be enough to confidently jump deeply into ML,DL,RL, which would be the next step in syllabus.

(And I'm continuing with reading/listening to non-fiction books (anything that is not a textbook) about the history of the field and anything related when eating, driving, working out. [Getting 25 books under my belt❤️](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/01/kushner-can-make-mid-east-peace-because-hes-read-25-books.html) (in no particular order):
1. The Alignment Problem
2. Genesis
3. Life 3.0
4. The Scaling Era
5. The Big Score
6. The Master Algorithm
7. Genius Makers
8. Supremacy: AI, ChatGPT, and the race that will change the world
9. AI: A Guide for Thinking Humans
10. The Quest for AI: History of Ideas and Achievements
11. Architects of Intelligence
12. Human Compatible
13. AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World 
14. If anyone builds it, everyone dies
15. The Worlds I see
16. AI 2041
17. Atlas of AI
18. A Brief History of Intelligence
19. Nexus
20. ✅Empire of AI
21. ✅Sam Altman, The Optimist
22. ✅Superintelligence ‒ Nick Bostrom
)

# Notes

Today I have finished chapter 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. In my AI Algorithms folder, these are all the notes under "Logic, Knowledge, Reasoning, and Planning" folder:

- Logic, Knowledge, Reasoning, and Planning
    - Fundamentals
        - Now we improve on Search Agents by creating Knowledge-Based Agents. 
        - Knowledge-Based Agents have internal representations (knowledge) about its Environment, and they reason through them to decide what to do.
        - We start by using Logic both to provide a way to define knowledge (representations), and then to reason about it (Inference).
        - 
        - First component of a Knowledge-Based Agent is their Knowledge Base. 🤯
        - Knowledge Base is a set ofSentences (used as technical term).
        - Each Sentence is expressed in Knowledge Representation Language and it represents some assertion about the Environment.
        - Sentences that are provided to the Knowledge Base (by the programmer or user) without being derived through Inference are called Axioms.
        - 
        - Each time the agent program is called, it does three things. First, it TELLs the knowledge base what it perceives. Second, it ASKs the knowledge base what action it should perform. In the process of answering this query, extensive reasoning may be done about the current state of the world, about the outcomes of possible action sequences, and so on. Third, the agent program TELLs the knowledge base which action was chosen, and returns the action so that it can be executed.Each time the agent program is called, it does three things. First, it TELLs the knowledge base what it perceives. Second, it ASKs the knowledge base what action it should perform. In the process of answering this query, extensive reasoning may be done about the current state of the world, about the outcomes of possible action sequences, and so on. Third, the agent program TELLs the knowledge base which action was chosen, and returns the action so that it can be executed.
        - Knowledge Level vs Implementation Level; or Declarative Programming vs Procedural Programming
            - The agent in Figure 7.1 appears quite similar to the agents with internal state described in Chapter 2. Because of the deﬁnitions of TELL and ASK, however, the knowledge-based agent is not an arbitrary program for calculating actions. It is amenable to a description at the knowledge level, where we need specify only what the agent knows and what its goals are, in order to determine its behavior. 
            - For example, an automated taxi might have the goal of taking a passenger from San Francisco to Marin County and might know that the Golden Gate Bridge is the only link between the two locations. Then we can expect it to cross the Golden Gate Bridge because it knows that that will achieve its goal. Notice that this analysis is independent of how the taxi works at the implementation level. It doesn’t matter whether its geographical knowledge  is implemented as linked lists or pixel maps, or whether it reasons by manipulating strings of symbols stored in registers or by propagating noisy signals in a network of neurons. 
            - A knowledge-based agent can be built simply by TELLing it what it needs to know. Starting with an empty knowledge base, the agent designer can TELL sentences one by one until the agent knows how to operate in its environment. This is called the declarative approach to system building. In contrast, the procedural approach encodes desired behaviors directly as program code. In the 1970s and 1980s, advocates of the two approaches engaged in heated debates. We now understand that a successful agent often combines both declarative and procedural elements in its design, and that declarative knowledge can often be compiled into more efﬁcient procedural code.The agent in Figure 7.1 appears quite similar to the agents with internal state described in Chapter 2. Because of the deﬁnitions of TELL and ASK, however, the knowledge-based agent is not an arbitrary program for calculating actions. It is amenable to a description at the knowledge level, where we need specify only what the agent knows and what its goals are,Knowledge level in order to determine its behavior. For example, an automated taxi might have the goal of taking a passenger from San Francisco to Marin County and might know that the Golden Gate Bridge is the only link between the two locations. Then we can expect it to cross the Golden Gate Bridge because it knows that that will achieve its goal. Notice that this analysis is independent of how the taxi works at the implementation level. It doesn’t matter whether its geographical knowledge isImplementation level implemented as linked lists or pixel maps, or whether it reasons by manipulating strings of symbols stored in registers or by propagating noisy signals in a network of neurons. A knowledge-based agent can be built simply by TELLing it what it needs to know. Starting with an empty knowledge base, the agent designer can TELL sentences one by one until the agent knows how to operate in its environment. This is called the declarative approachDeclarative to system building. In contrast, the procedural approach encodes desired behaviors directlyProcedural as program code. In the 1970s and 1980s, advocates of the two approaches engaged in heated debates. We now understand that a successful agent often combines both declarative and procedural elements in its design, and that declarative knowledge can often be compiled into more efﬁcient procedural code.
            - 
        - 
        - Propositional Logic is Factored Representation Approach. Less expressive First-Order Logic is Structured Representation Approach.
        - 
    - 
    - Logical Agents
        - Fundamentals of Logic
            - This section summarizes the fundamental concepts of logical representation and reasoning. These beautiful ideas are independent of any of logic’s particular forms. We therefore postpone the technical details of those forms until the next section, using instead the familiar example of ordinary arithmetic.This section summarizes the fundamental concepts of logical representation and reasoning. These beautiful ideas are independent of any of logic’s particular forms. We therefore postpone the technical details of those forms until the next section, using instead the familiar example of ordinary arithmetic.
            - Logic is an explicit formal system for defining objects, their relationships, and rules for deriving new truths from known truths.
            - 
            - Knowledge Representation Language has Syntax that defines valid and invalid way to define Sentences (i.e. define knowledge).
            - For Arithmetic x+y=4 is valid, and x4y+= isn't (ordinary arithmetic is form of Logic!).
            - 
            - Semantics is meaning of Sentences, it is also provided by Logic. Semantics defines truth of sentences. x+y=4 is true in a world where x=2; y=2.
            - In Logic something is either true or false, no in between.
            - 
            - Possible worlds and models are the same thing ‒ possible world is conceptual (like men and women playing monopoly), model is a formal representation (x+y=4).
            - Model can satisfy a sentence. For example model {2, 2} satisfies sentence x+y=4.
            - Possible models in that case are any positive integers, we can't have decimal or negative humans.
            - Only some of possible models satisfy our sentence, like {0,4}, {1,3}, {2,2} etc.
            - 
            - Entailment is the idea that sentence follows from another sentence: if a is true, b is true. Inference is the process of deriving one sentence from another, for example b from a.
            - 
            - Sound, truth-preserving, completeness:
            - Grounding ‒ How can we know that logical knowledge and reasoning is actually true in the real world? (Answer, we can't be ever 100% sure, knowledge is fallible.)
            - 
        - 
        - Propositional Logic
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/I231EQkEySxTY1cpM1keDZAPxepkujqxnP_8bBYXe_SL05MTo8da35px0zyvCJIMffx90MWKoTpXrn18jfpvTypsmQ0OsRTxCOc1_99_mvAUualytL8cENgLHflN9rvL.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/RZxa945cDWrubOBVHs048Rh7MzF8FDonqQtebwPSolW3DWF-FG5UiFjz0ML5fFzXHIWJ-IESKAVdbeNSduEmHSU9QHzcu1u9pW9rrTi1RHoizRFpcF5DV9vj6JocBa2p.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/wIVlbKdNdnqLpETQkegE0vE07dcCI7cyADaJpLJbByLaE7gxeKXIEjf4r2sOrVpKXkwvTwjuWeZ55IA7aV9SJoxkC7L7namWyB0veUpfDttOXHhNCKUejYBw2tgpi9tK.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/wIVlbKdNdnqLpETQkegE0vE07dcCI7cyADaJpLJbByLaE7gxeKXIEjf4r2sOrVpKXkwvTwjuWeZ55IA7aV9SJoxkC7L7namWyB0veUpfDttOXHhNCKUejYBw2tgpi9tK.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/RZxa945cDWrubOBVHs048Rh7MzF8FDonqQtebwPSolW3DWF-FG5UiFjz0ML5fFzXHIWJ-IESKAVdbeNSduEmHSU9QHzcu1u9pW9rrTi1RHoizRFpcF5DV9vj6JocBa2p.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/I231EQkEySxTY1cpM1keDZAPxepkujqxnP_8bBYXe_SL05MTo8da35px0zyvCJIMffx90MWKoTpXrn18jfpvTypsmQ0OsRTxCOc1_99_mvAUualytL8cENgLHflN9rvL.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/Nf-j8IZ5aKIUlEHcHCmiZOquUl8R5u0pHTx-3bjv5a1qHSN8_eX8cHTV07sWkjRmnnhms9U9GL2QjwBoZqMZw_oH4fdRCPUhZk26ZVFHMPOChScBUzWTx_xnNKKIL1fd.png
            - 
            - 
        - Inference in Propositional Logic, and Model Checking
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/sA5Jk3pQXxgamWMhrYQauSWRSHlswaMyyBG-9OBslidVMpurUgXd1Gt2LNQeeNUNlcmQx0dQAW0EWU7KiPjdNIQ4DYTF2tYqAmowlwbFg0cyLwM7AwDbr1MM7w9bffYf.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/sA5Jk3pQXxgamWMhrYQauSWRSHlswaMyyBG-9OBslidVMpurUgXd1Gt2LNQeeNUNlcmQx0dQAW0EWU7KiPjdNIQ4DYTF2tYqAmowlwbFg0cyLwM7AwDbr1MM7w9bffYf.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/01FfgJcekABUEQdoQjGuPCH97Qg4FOld3gIXFZLxfwprNuRv-lemCVZ5s93T2ecOYt9-CHFJt1H5sCN0eodAooHRqilcSMH53J4bfj04a2IG-E6sfo-EiZstcDawg2rs.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/01FfgJcekABUEQdoQjGuPCH97Qg4FOld3gIXFZLxfwprNuRv-lemCVZ5s93T2ecOYt9-CHFJt1H5sCN0eodAooHRqilcSMH53J4bfj04a2IG-E6sfo-EiZstcDawg2rs.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/1OwXQQ_SDWagB-b_1FzoIL3h7zmUxPdlheHV2XSicY8f2HZPcscXtKBDqMPwUILP23d6KV1rum1UGwPJqS4-9gjUlIVamnA2w5ss7msnsvsylLCgwc34KsvuIgNadIYN.png
            - 
        - Propositional Logic Agents
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/zciZK6l8KRCKY8Gat0J0YRf5rvYV6b9lE7yPYd49u_RVBgPJKrN2c88kGLJv5Vb9o0ExbjEn_kCbRpFpQdkiZpkOm40XLoHdbwWhxMcg3MqTGMY6QzbFMex0ELjnaOrn.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dYEI_0y-cKwhFk_A8Ghp8PmZ1a3Ff5pXZctYFV8MSlahLWY37VaG_yDQwXucZ-G1mJZTn-Kd7w0yLI3_jw8frdQxWwQNYjFeEEzmuKMSo2Z_3rpVyN-Jb9S9BKpKXWZj.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dYEI_0y-cKwhFk_A8Ghp8PmZ1a3Ff5pXZctYFV8MSlahLWY37VaG_yDQwXucZ-G1mJZTn-Kd7w0yLI3_jw8frdQxWwQNYjFeEEzmuKMSo2Z_3rpVyN-Jb9S9BKpKXWZj.png
            - 
        - 
        - Logical Agents Panoramically, and summary
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ya2he6Jky791FDzGZJI91ke3hnhOtwqX6tyRrLBwKAGRauMMj-72hztry3odAFxMboqiiTJJiV57mZtV_O5Yu9wuAPSNZCM0UL_VTRZpuu21NXb_5hnaL-Lp134T1YEK.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/tDbwLDDfd3Cdrg7PbjE13KShcHm8ou9rYXy6C_xTfGv01Q1EHPqbLCWfC8GAC4ckTz7QQ7sN3Kw7RFwQ1Xz41f7MQ2hTTIBOuEYikvInE3YHIp_HrwAltCnAwdD7lIbB.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ffAtQ9AjbLkTKporbcfoTyff_Lv27tuXba6Nr-oNGp3M0T9umMePjdnaBSPZJgFgGzm4mI1fTxEagjJ0yTSU7T4CrWQq7nJE5dP7nu4QTHk7ERyn1bV2ztCu7iB1JPIY.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ffAtQ9AjbLkTKporbcfoTyff_Lv27tuXba6Nr-oNGp3M0T9umMePjdnaBSPZJgFgGzm4mI1fTxEagjJ0yTSU7T4CrWQq7nJE5dP7nu4QTHk7ERyn1bV2ztCu7iB1JPIY.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/tDbwLDDfd3Cdrg7PbjE13KShcHm8ou9rYXy6C_xTfGv01Q1EHPqbLCWfC8GAC4ckTz7QQ7sN3Kw7RFwQ1Xz41f7MQ2hTTIBOuEYikvInE3YHIp_HrwAltCnAwdD7lIbB.png
            - 
        - More
        - 
    - First-Order Logic
        - First-Order Logic is another form of Logic, but it can say more than Propositional Logic. We continue to use logic form to define knowledge and reason about it.
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/DuS-pL9ltYWmaCt7L0RqscNpIW2jjMnUHdkzPEUXKTZYGTRu6RlCQAUotFF7K2My8yfF09mhoFwVLUsw4D3E-LdDw8duSmayw_w9i63-u52DaqsuKw2gzNfbPWzdhzUN.png
        - The main addition of First-Order Logic that not only it posit existence of objects as propositional logic does, but it adds connections, relations between them.
            - The language of ﬁrst-order logic, whose syntax and semantics we deﬁne in the next section, is built around objects and relations. It has been important to mathematics, philosophy, and artiﬁcial intelligence precisely because those ﬁelds—and indeed, much of everyday human existence—can be usefully thought of as dealing with objects and the relations among them. First-order logic can also express facts about some or all of the objects in the universe. This enables one to represent general laws or rules, such as the statement “Squares neighboring the wumpus are smelly.” 
            - The primary difference between propositional and ﬁrst-order logic lies in the ontological commitment made by each language—that is, what it assumes about the nature of reality. Mathematically, this commitment is expressed through the nature of the formal models with respect to which the truth of sentences is deﬁned. For example, propositional logic assumes that there are facts that either hold or do not hold in the world. Each fact can be in one of two states—true or false—and each model assigns true or false to each proposition symbol (see Section 7.4.2). First-order logic assumes more; namely, that the world consists of objects with certain relations among them that do or do not hold. (See Figure 8.1.) The formal models are correspondingly more complicated than those for propositional logic.The language of ﬁrst-order logic, whose syntax and semantics we deﬁne in the next section, is built around objects and relations. It has been important to mathematics, philosophy, and artiﬁcial intelligence precisely because those ﬁelds—and indeed, much of everyday human existence—can be usefully thought of as dealing with objects and the relations among them. First-order logic can also express facts about some or all of the objects in the universe. This enables one to represent general laws or rules, such as the statement “Squares neighboring the wumpus are smelly.” The primary difference between propositional and ﬁrst-order logic lies in the ontological commitment made by each language—that is, what it assumes about the nature of reality.Ontological commitment Mathematically, this commitment is expressed through the nature of the formal models with respect to which the truth of sentences is deﬁned. For example, propositional logic assumes that there are facts that either hold or do not hold in the world. Each fact can be in one of two states—true or false—and each model assigns true or false to each proposition symbol (see Section 7.4.2). First-order logic assumes more; namely, that the world consists of objects with certain relations among them that do or do not hold. (See Figure 8.1.) The formal models are correspondingly more complicated than those for propositional logic.
            - This ontological commitment is a great strength of logic (both propositional and ﬁrstorder), because it allows us to start with true statements and infer other true statements. It is especially powerful in domains where every proposition has clear boundaries, such as mathematics or the wumpus world, where a square either does or doesn’t have a pit; there is no possibility of a square with a vaguely pit-like indentation. But in the real world, many propositions have vague boundaries: Is Vienna a large city? Does this restaurant serve delicious food? Is that person tall? It depends who you ask, and their answer might be “kind of.” 
            - One response is to reﬁne the representation: if a crude line dividing cities into “large” and “not large” leaves out too much information for the application in question, then one can increase the number of size categories or use a Population function symbol. Another proposed solution comes from Fuzzy logic, which makes the ontological commitment that Fuzzy logic propositions have a degree of truth between 0 and 1. For example, the sentence “Vienna is a Degree of truth large city” might be true to degree 0.8 in fuzzy logic, while “Paris is a large city” might be true to degree 0.9. This corresponds better to our intuitive conception of the world, but it makes it harder to do inference: instead of one rule to determine the truth of A ∧ B, fuzzy logic needs different rules depending on the domain. Another possibility, covered in Section 25.1, is to assign each concept to a point in a multidimensional space, and then measure the distance between the concept “large city” and the concept “Vienna” or “Paris.” 
            - Various special-purpose logics make still further Ontological Commitments; for example, temporal logic assumes that facts hold at particular times and that those times (which may Temporal logic be points or intervals) are ordered. Thus, special-purpose logics give certain kinds of objects (and the axioms about them) “ﬁrst class” status within the logic, rather than simply deﬁning them within the knowledge base. Higher-order logic views the relations and functions Higher-order logic referred to by ﬁrst-order logic as objects in themselves. This allows one to make assertions about all relations—for example, one could wish to deﬁne what it means for a relation to be transitive. Unlike most special-purpose logics, higher-order logic is strictly more expressive than ﬁrst-order logic, in the sense that some sentences of higher-order logic cannot be expressed by any ﬁnite number of ﬁrst-order logic sentences. 
            - A logic can also be characterized by its Epistemological Commitments—the possible states of knowledge that it allows with respect to each fact. In both propositional and ﬁrst-order logic, a sentence represents a fact and the agent either believes the sentence to be true, believes it to be false, or has no opinion. These logics therefore have three possible states of knowledge regarding any sentence.This ontological commitment is a great strength of logic (both propositional and ﬁrstorder), because it allows us to start with true statements and infer other true statements. It is especially powerful in domains where every proposition has clear boundaries, such as mathematics or the wumpus world, where a square either does or doesn’t have a pit; there is no possibility of a square with a vaguely pit-like indentation. But in the real world, many propositions have vague boundaries: Is Vienna a large city? Does this restaurant serve delicious food? Is that person tall? It depends who you ask, and their answer might be “kind of.” One response is to reﬁne the representation: if a crude line dividing cities into “large” and “not large” leaves out too much information for the application in question, then one can increase the number of size categories or use a Population function symbol. Another proposed solution comes from Fuzzy logic, which makes the ontological commitment that Fuzzy logic propositions have a degree of truth between 0 and 1. For example, the sentence “Vienna is a Degree of truth large city” might be true to degree 0.8 in fuzzy logic, while “Paris is a large city” might be true to degree 0.9. This corresponds better to our intuitive conception of the world, but it makes it harder to do inference: instead of one rule to determine the truth of A ∧ B, fuzzy logic needs different rules depending on the domain. Another possibility, covered in Section 25.1, is to assign each concept to a point in a multidimensional space, and then measure the distance between the concept “large city” and the concept “Vienna” or “Paris.” Various special-purpose logics make still further ontological commitments; for example, temporal logic assumes that facts hold at particular times and that those times (which may Temporal logic be points or intervals) are ordered. Thus, special-purpose logics give certain kinds of objects (and the axioms about them) “ﬁrst class” status within the logic, rather than simply deﬁning them within the knowledge base. Higher-order logic views the relations and functions Higher-order logic referred to by ﬁrst-order logic as objects in themselves. This allows one to make assertions about all relations—for example, one could wish to deﬁne what it means for a relation to be transitive. Unlike most special-purpose logics, higher-order logic is strictly more expressive than ﬁrst-order logic, in the sense that some sentences of higher-order logic cannot be expressed by any ﬁnite number of ﬁrst-order logic sentences. A logic can also be characterized by its epistemological commitments—the possible Epistemological commitment states of knowledge that it allows with respect to each fact. In both propositional and ﬁrstorder logic, a sentence represents a fact and the agent either believes the sentence to be true, believes it to be false, or has no opinion. These logics therefore have three possible states of knowledge regarding any sentence.
            - Systems using Probability Theory, on the other hand, can have any degree of belief, or subjective likelihood, ranging from 0 (total disbelief) to 1 (total belief). It is important not to confuse the degree of belief in probability theory with the degree of truth in fuzzy logic. Indeed, some fuzzy systems allow uncertainty (degree of belief) about degrees of truth. For example, a probabilistic wumpus-world agent might believe that the wumpus is in [1,3] with probability 0.75 and in [2, 3] with probability 0.25 (although the wumpus is deﬁnitely in one particular square).Systems using probability theory, on the other hand, can have any degree of belief, or subjective likelihood, ranging from 0 (total disbelief) to 1 (total belief). It is important not to confuse the degree of belief in probability theory with the degree of truth in fuzzy logic. Indeed, some fuzzy systems allow uncertainty (degree of belief) about degrees of truth. For example, a probabilistic wumpus-world agent might believe that the wumpus is in [1,3] with probability 0.75 and in [2, 3] with probability 0.25 (although the wumpus is deﬁnitely in one particular square).
            - 
        - 
        - Knowledge Representation Languages!
            - Programming Languages  are formal languages. Procedural Programming vs Declarative Programming:
            - Nature of Language, and Knowledge Representation Language (Logic, Ontological Commitment, Epistemological Commitment):
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/6ie_a9wG2rO9-a-Y3KbJps4SpSkYokV-ex-70gJuZJIFN12eONJ7LBZGr595H-_cgshSRTAvhnf9aLPTpRW4a5cgVhLlWDjbku7_UoS2hJmUauxs9Y0nofP4nNhYi_bp.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/GNez1lh-T3FgudSkfZJ2YlUtOgwDG3h4KX8qKzBwR4Ayq0sgxkB9_cxIhhev62RRLxzwIHyimOkhBnDUSkD2uchY2_DWLy5PH1lhPNlZ7ZgsCpUYBI8ZMJRVlkq4vIxp.png
            - 
        - 
        - Definition of First-Order Logic
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/O-QMSKi4XG-0tq921G318uvspJ0DOc271EkVfhgbWxGtSWxRp-jDdRd1KFjGoVah8xWZTvtTjAgB6jCvLZxo1j6SI3Icn9TDnU3fzrEpH_tZ73aZaDBwL9yXX0rlnwHB.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/M1dO_Ro-BMcbqbH2f9WBrutUr3c2LfOFj7ccOoEe1vEfQpgHKbsUImfUSpuT-L1JgWddek9QmSaWmMmSPO_U27uzcC2svxOqUnMzL4zHWvxy0cXgYGJ7Ek7q8eTqlVyI.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/LQjGAwNkEcYKiGQ06T1RSZMr121jBU1b4bERO9dz00NchEOB_uiWVBynrv4bfLWBqmCxCQALl5mceRGBIh9MVir1YNMIXClV7u1SfU-s4q1V3lP08LNB9UVDr5x6oSA6.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/LQjGAwNkEcYKiGQ06T1RSZMr121jBU1b4bERO9dz00NchEOB_uiWVBynrv4bfLWBqmCxCQALl5mceRGBIh9MVir1YNMIXClV7u1SfU-s4q1V3lP08LNB9UVDr5x6oSA6.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/M1dO_Ro-BMcbqbH2f9WBrutUr3c2LfOFj7ccOoEe1vEfQpgHKbsUImfUSpuT-L1JgWddek9QmSaWmMmSPO_U27uzcC2svxOqUnMzL4zHWvxy0cXgYGJ7Ek7q8eTqlVyI.png
            - 
        - Using First-Order Logic
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dMYHvEzEb5r0-buxzngDfHlm0Jxri11t91Gy4HpV4ANYkOKLoYHg0KOIu4h3LrLdsTq_t67QHhZy3rqSrgvyF6j29XZRAqw099l3CgLqggMO27aHk7Sg1cWEdI23rfuQ.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dMYHvEzEb5r0-buxzngDfHlm0Jxri11t91Gy4HpV4ANYkOKLoYHg0KOIu4h3LrLdsTq_t67QHhZy3rqSrgvyF6j29XZRAqw099l3CgLqggMO27aHk7Sg1cWEdI23rfuQ.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/NKw04m9uRdL3FphCYI9E_gYCbQrh_asJPAA6JF34fKBeFjLwNLXIFztmR76TKKlFp1z9kw3_7wepZcvLHeroczJ2lpk2rIOERMEvu8481OjY_2Wl0YtRQJnayyat6IUC.png
                - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/MngT6H3WKCX71VSBe8FU1D8FjW0fEG4ZHp6uGFv5XaIEYYDRWQyUgDDWindK52os6aKaTDGTzl9q50YQNGmJF3hSveZb09LrOBID6gRej7ib5b-QPG-3K_lxVfHew86W.png
            - 
        - Knowledge Engineering in First-Order Logic
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/KAGbL7AZV6QXC2TSYdABxIaEc5PFvo7eFUBdl6XZq1KcaYRS0H3U5Fak7IohVlTr-7oRR9VgyFkbYkwVbeEZYQqEYBIyg6sYBm7xm3-88PhemvCfTjVAd7iol7G5HXj-.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/KAGbL7AZV6QXC2TSYdABxIaEc5PFvo7eFUBdl6XZq1KcaYRS0H3U5Fak7IohVlTr-7oRR9VgyFkbYkwVbeEZYQqEYBIyg6sYBm7xm3-88PhemvCfTjVAd7iol7G5HXj-.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/DrxADQDoW8LLyxXvDZtqdw1PeJJosk3ZMwe9G4Evrv8XFA5iqmg9Dowo37xuze4bWSlVsKFpLZ1rg2GqokcQ94rqTH3godmAQ8iYZ1N7iO83D_fkc1t46K7xeqHC8JQW.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ujBX15kAejOQGtVVubCZdaHFyPSccrOGNh1vB5_h2-YMV432Ly68KnQ1x0vBPalxaiH3lRScwWSTiFo_0nZR7lJZrpjK2n72sMdd3FSj9k1dwihdnHt4Cj8T0mIKbj_f.png
            - 
        - 
        - First-Order Logic and Electronic Circuits!
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/u1X02psnTIfgPmzo_0uZJjHytxLOXn87CuORaSkptjeg4N6c6Q1RUvYW0otsL5Wj0OTkLDXLOBp13lf1Lhh0Q4sxVhUPLFZ3OdLf0gVdEkmJHfRgVdG_yj12YCJDa98A.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/hB94HgnlFgLu6ZtlZ1M6rSYMzfti_UMcFkBh2sn4VjlW5sFw3ohCNq3U44gOUrcfg8qlaURRIgi7BQeWlD_9kBDXQj0wHjGkckaurBl2QWAYeX7kGO_0A19r0VQX4XGP.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/-fV_KTt35VEv_bDQTPgUShaCc5ThbkLETpJAsglLzLRBuVCW-6EdqbUbULzkkCSCob_i5Tesb4y3Nfl4fijBDAouOCcezM_Ko-NM4zD4CuSmvG7PeXIHG372avHH5J3H.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/oV-Hqtul6DdruTXzMxlWtPf0YTMJTTH8aUUbCjI-MkC_1s5MR7XeyonjAM2_pdLTAnP_fBkKtvs3P7bc-8yz1Q4b4pfbVL1jDfBm9CJQsdc1HWSVLJlp_Qb4CykcqLAe.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/E8ZBjWtCZGXy2ih-eiPbSdcWp3LP2DVChDPrU4nMihcNUdZSYrlis7AeDCde-N9plfWlMx5TTZjsD8nPOu4n7EfvYDXXLEpaAb1FNt4YJZJhFH2dqr75bpykiUqPxZ-n.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/E8ZBjWtCZGXy2ih-eiPbSdcWp3LP2DVChDPrU4nMihcNUdZSYrlis7AeDCde-N9plfWlMx5TTZjsD8nPOu4n7EfvYDXXLEpaAb1FNt4YJZJhFH2dqr75bpykiUqPxZ-n.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/oV-Hqtul6DdruTXzMxlWtPf0YTMJTTH8aUUbCjI-MkC_1s5MR7XeyonjAM2_pdLTAnP_fBkKtvs3P7bc-8yz1Q4b4pfbVL1jDfBm9CJQsdc1HWSVLJlp_Qb4CykcqLAe.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/-fV_KTt35VEv_bDQTPgUShaCc5ThbkLETpJAsglLzLRBuVCW-6EdqbUbULzkkCSCob_i5Tesb4y3Nfl4fijBDAouOCcezM_Ko-NM4zD4CuSmvG7PeXIHG372avHH5J3H.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/hB94HgnlFgLu6ZtlZ1M6rSYMzfti_UMcFkBh2sn4VjlW5sFw3ohCNq3U44gOUrcfg8qlaURRIgi7BQeWlD_9kBDXQj0wHjGkckaurBl2QWAYeX7kGO_0A19r0VQX4XGP.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/u1X02psnTIfgPmzo_0uZJjHytxLOXn87CuORaSkptjeg4N6c6Q1RUvYW0otsL5Wj0OTkLDXLOBp13lf1Lhh0Q4sxVhUPLFZ3OdLf0gVdEkmJHfRgVdG_yj12YCJDa98A.png
            - 
        - 
        - Panoramic view and summary
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/iKRwxlf_jhQjaJ3wxu1yM1nl8p88mBc2Jrf_LkMnHaM_WYs3WyrK3PG66jjG9bN5V3EOK7D54wKSJXJ16F2yrAS4mDjEs588EZ8AwXJ1_fxRcBgzvnRmPdRl8eUIXPRR.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/iKRwxlf_jhQjaJ3wxu1yM1nl8p88mBc2Jrf_LkMnHaM_WYs3WyrK3PG66jjG9bN5V3EOK7D54wKSJXJ16F2yrAS4mDjEs588EZ8AwXJ1_fxRcBgzvnRmPdRl8eUIXPRR.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dLuOnh4xu9IkcvQvJ5jmA3FAjgReQtetfwZRtb8Eo_aGQ53v73KE1cvaCfYej9-kuRshixeuAtnce8TGQkvcS5Au0WeQ8UkOBee_ykKEKDz5Hl9g37thtp_ZoLxOBihU.png
            - 
        - 
    - Inference in First-Order Logic
        - You won't believe it son, this document is about how to do Inference in First-Order Logic.
        - 
        - Intro
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/5CjVFdR6hWEkrmUWWsI049P_KRHCU6gUSkqDgtkVWmfST9m7gRBfD_jQZPCW8GO5xGZlPTB60qs3D_za9oyvOe6Cmi-1MpkZML5E5WRKE6tVXlv0b4WQarPTAlk0y0P9.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/5CjVFdR6hWEkrmUWWsI049P_KRHCU6gUSkqDgtkVWmfST9m7gRBfD_jQZPCW8GO5xGZlPTB60qs3D_za9oyvOe6Cmi-1MpkZML5E5WRKE6tVXlv0b4WQarPTAlk0y0P9.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/cqgWDxW7R1_dgrczvFIAPiZJ85K4isdLgLe3r_WpeH3yjJ-Wl2M7nVeFQceSCDQH7-YYoPlw497kK_3wy9PuHArF5pCPLmsxDdpK6Xago2f8gyOlwDGU9LxeLoH8ds7K.png
            - 
        - Logic Unification in First-Order Logic
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/PpsIrLSCGAPxE8nXK6-z9_nE9v_LNNvr06omlbM3qt5gnEdYtiJKwIkWvOgh-EjrXh_yMVdKe65TM8Za6vD8TvawzMRxnNf2-53SogVQucIhoeSPVeOxTehgGexMkIjj.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/MmPuZvdMTreCgRfSgg6JpYteAFAO6Oh-EXTljXxXEiD2tB_9DGE4A-hjJ3uYBZTPnx7B15XajaAPWnZ52NdV-INzTPctdTXGZM1De4PAw-UugwA10n7mdHnvM2saeQ7S.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/MmPuZvdMTreCgRfSgg6JpYteAFAO6Oh-EXTljXxXEiD2tB_9DGE4A-hjJ3uYBZTPnx7B15XajaAPWnZ52NdV-INzTPctdTXGZM1De4PAw-UugwA10n7mdHnvM2saeQ7S.png
            - 
        - Forward Chaining
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/LaVONtFNIo4yB7Q7P-I4fuq8kxTqGEGOuCa8oOAjaNvI-eExLzSNRPkAPwOIllDcyp8M58vO4NhaoV-46gQxOKgjp8TYmA13cI5io_dtZ7PBDydZ_X2L_HiGg_AZOwNg.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/x6SORSmea9HpQpxM781CEP1_CxlHtrPSSdZ0jGO-3dR-GVubQVzi-V2jj2GuKCHbhJZLgQFGYmR3KjNUDxzo2c6KQ2zkcx-RIL5d6FaQjjtFr06fy3M9Qy3JoVRXl5WN.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/x6SORSmea9HpQpxM781CEP1_CxlHtrPSSdZ0jGO-3dR-GVubQVzi-V2jj2GuKCHbhJZLgQFGYmR3KjNUDxzo2c6KQ2zkcx-RIL5d6FaQjjtFr06fy3M9Qy3JoVRXl5WN.png
            - 
        - Backward Chaining
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/5MzW28H9xOKBGtTXtNY4BbSrgzfZkSfQXnrnRjl7Ox7bejvKx_9Lrg2HnjHKTg78QR9G6eXIb-hZajfjAmbZmKEh3Wh14i-zPG0O0APvZVmuCqVBfKYj6lbRdOh_Dk12.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/p8rAAaPe-tWikSUkQFbdenmegu097F2R-WRA1VTt-At49uKEDL3Sm9OI1dt8Q9d29EUPSd10aInG5hKvFT3-_LuP-rGYKyHNjRscC1LV4TU1pYdwFRRZgs7zgd9Z_-eM.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/p8rAAaPe-tWikSUkQFbdenmegu097F2R-WRA1VTt-At49uKEDL3Sm9OI1dt8Q9d29EUPSd10aInG5hKvFT3-_LuP-rGYKyHNjRscC1LV4TU1pYdwFRRZgs7zgd9Z_-eM.png
            - 
        - Resolution-Based Theorem Proving
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/f5qWTCy2cTiCSU28n_fAJ4dFjMGyGeob8iNvY4MCWyNv1pRhgocwfovusHhzZy_UK12QzzKmqpGU-TQJ4zoeybiyjXeKd4snuEAH5dUAKojSeGKndUqWLVKJP52fjyT_.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/aJQzCIi_U9bJXJslyrO2bsoMayWm-FD5BkGTVuj_URfeBbrepsgWmp4bZJARnPW6biT6iJHi_0vv6SLKMipeiv5AiZwbmCmLp6ZyF3zzv8JvKDKILbuID8X-7tA6coZK.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/aJQzCIi_U9bJXJslyrO2bsoMayWm-FD5BkGTVuj_URfeBbrepsgWmp4bZJARnPW6biT6iJHi_0vv6SLKMipeiv5AiZwbmCmLp6ZyF3zzv8JvKDKILbuID8X-7tA6coZK.png
            - 
        - 
        - Panoramic view and summary
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/qZ0faQRmcSc1gCpULWPF5PFR_iOcziskK97a3CBe3TqtDd862MuCo8ZZpBthLhN0j1AzYLN4AtwFHh9dnb2FpzhpI4jTN1VVa2OyvdHmkYL5rE47ZcuIB7PsmWfwL5XB.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/k1XipG-onCx-nh_EX3hBNZhSmtLLGPySfRbVTOuG7SBabcbg79SpOIiBCDhepP0eqN0-Sb4B3dy0aeLiZjIpI3bJI2Mg9sFx5LTDc_B6V4XGlkk5xOQI9_n_eec9Clns.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/3f7BbNzEISLps8kK4_cRDVWJFUnQXgc6PvyPbi6D3OsdL4hpcNCQnZYJRyToJOFt3Qy7vNkuUypjPneLXevAAjJ9tewnvDt4qtpSxI-QuSrAJbgSzMtRjF8UowuNmFIT.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/3f7BbNzEISLps8kK4_cRDVWJFUnQXgc6PvyPbi6D3OsdL4hpcNCQnZYJRyToJOFt3Qy7vNkuUypjPneLXevAAjJ9tewnvDt4qtpSxI-QuSrAJbgSzMtRjF8UowuNmFIT.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/k1XipG-onCx-nh_EX3hBNZhSmtLLGPySfRbVTOuG7SBabcbg79SpOIiBCDhepP0eqN0-Sb4B3dy0aeLiZjIpI3bJI2Mg9sFx5LTDc_B6V4XGlkk5xOQI9_n_eec9Clns.png
            - 
        - 
    - Knowledge Representation
        - Creating appropriate Knowledge Base is the essence of creating Knowledge-Based Agents. 
        - We need a framework for handling agent's representations regardless of how they are expressed (i.e. what Knowledge Representation Language we use), be it First-Order Logic, Bayesian Networks, Probabilistic Reasoning over Time, or even deep Neural Networks.
        - This chapter is about that framework.
        - 
        - Ontological Engineering
            - Organizing everything into a hierarchy of categories (Upper Ontology).
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/uqNbskY2xk2EZ1PUf7UZjjeoQCv7lnbl94Z6DUi68mur59oop7RR4KodTBGKGG_3puc7bNOrWd9j-O8BVCgR-AROjjw7mIX8zA0SkOhqIQ8TuHKdpxoB-oWeX_EU_Knm.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/uqNbskY2xk2EZ1PUf7UZjjeoQCv7lnbl94Z6DUi68mur59oop7RR4KodTBGKGG_3puc7bNOrWd9j-O8BVCgR-AROjjw7mIX8zA0SkOhqIQ8TuHKdpxoB-oWeX_EU_Knm.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/5tPfyjLv6LEPAL-2X7wuoKQ_Rmthq8mHGncgh3oOXUA1o3eyYh4h2Wu4t6_hAtqa9pTlggIpwf09wa3wR4rvYpsEuEAu6Bs5DYjLWBUkZb2uc14-yDw8P6j5QQ7RdNBF.png
            - 
            - 
        - Basic Categories of Objects, Substances, and Measures
            - Inheritance, just like in JavaScript and Object-Oriented Programming is a key feature of Ontological Engineering.
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/TMJhmyrXB_3ogHwgHKFOs12OmfvtxaLBvcrnMvVteWxEX4EQpza_B7rZ2Ais5EArZxi8iGGceK6957RFavvcbvq0HeA6dCKXXqM1vfePyPwECJKU0QZ00mtpx1CfYlGA.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/4w1UY9yZvddiNxR8bJOsfkaQk1_wMJEoBRw99BIqDUcL5uvIU_LEUVn3y-OzQtdH7NBLlyo_OCzCacbhU-9EJgELUzinGvtQHN4MgprM1xiKNEEl7pbG7twGQpJ2imCg.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/4w1UY9yZvddiNxR8bJOsfkaQk1_wMJEoBRw99BIqDUcL5uvIU_LEUVn3y-OzQtdH7NBLlyo_OCzCacbhU-9EJgELUzinGvtQHN4MgprM1xiKNEEl7pbG7twGQpJ2imCg.png
            - 
        - Events
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/vypRCzQ7BXWQZAzGY5LatvCNA_mTbkFzghdcBjXowYYbaUELOWRhSTtdWaGtyTML95c9YE4fQdCjcMmy3SN1iHZtYsN-bv7TJhhQhEToFxvbCYI0AfaO38RWHXuyp3Z3.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/lthix8aT5OsPAbhL-SQgazYj8EezPr0WnAz3nBkM_eOu6jg8DMKROwEIM5aGiyBdfxPx8P6sXpnnFhNr6NqaKBiZq4ygUXVqROpPaujoyoeWhRPYBImX6qnPdg1sR_BQ.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/lthix8aT5OsPAbhL-SQgazYj8EezPr0WnAz3nBkM_eOu6jg8DMKROwEIM5aGiyBdfxPx8P6sXpnnFhNr6NqaKBiZq4ygUXVqROpPaujoyoeWhRPYBImX6qnPdg1sR_BQ.png
            - 
            - 
        - Knowledge about Beliefs
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/3_na3XXpkWQQRhjac7v9Ic9tOSbScVgN69kRuCa3UwpZPd7ocmtX76-DbOIdEo286sh6w5lxQOvuEN4jRvJxo9OtEE6DjQ7dHTT1JmTG9nVdJK796XV4b232URd770Em.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/3_na3XXpkWQQRhjac7v9Ic9tOSbScVgN69kRuCa3UwpZPd7ocmtX76-DbOIdEo286sh6w5lxQOvuEN4jRvJxo9OtEE6DjQ7dHTT1JmTG9nVdJK796XV4b232URd770Em.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/-mvSRp5ZjUYVE2zyjBVXPO1mwFViA-FmWbRwhI96xzPUdjEHrUaHboIWvjpGif3LO3uVKgOyfOmH5-oqYAD74ctI65w2gBVNPsZsk516CntlBLqZK__SXHEaMT-ias9i.png
            - 
            - 
        - 
        - Reasoning (Inference) with Categories
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/2BsOvGrsGJeAw3rqR0O_V4Q_u329UK2N0QZ_Fp5Wm_apLOKQWushAqg_0WHJE2YqDp86aGeYdrNwC5yciObjM4ewBaK2DUKn8sj6sAjNwc2GYVl4bUXzKtPw9xibN66V.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/2BsOvGrsGJeAw3rqR0O_V4Q_u329UK2N0QZ_Fp5Wm_apLOKQWushAqg_0WHJE2YqDp86aGeYdrNwC5yciObjM4ewBaK2DUKn8sj6sAjNwc2GYVl4bUXzKtPw9xibN66V.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/KQn8LuY8Z39iIUmeyS8BPxTtsSb6A69KSfAowRec7hqBZoctOQb3gMJvoN3KxSJ54aKDg0ehWHT8U0rUavIira8kbpDh1yLbA4UH_G5rlda6uL-FS-xtihpVTexBcmGX.png
            - 
        - Reasoning (Inference) with Default Info
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/_Nr0RMxDPlzcToZCBRAeKflskG08XR8jUxV_octFq88L1f4exSNkYJsXnbptw4xTWMx_KhDani3Dz5nvFlq5UKEgHKR0i1NeLaI-dlQ1cRxsAEY6zWP8i0treUY-fRVR.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/_Nr0RMxDPlzcToZCBRAeKflskG08XR8jUxV_octFq88L1f4exSNkYJsXnbptw4xTWMx_KhDani3Dz5nvFlq5UKEgHKR0i1NeLaI-dlQ1cRxsAEY6zWP8i0treUY-fRVR.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ApjYDj4GoDl0wYilIBWSZ7cUJ8Ewh3EYafwT1bZc1WXMi5vKhNg3gD4JMxcz4R0N9RGoxjo-MPi6g87Y9VEnnzLdwTCE9GMEeWyrdCrBA1IorFrxywbPRoG_YpR_5kSw.png
            - 
        - 
        - Panoramic view and summary
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/WN81x-pSNF87THujo0pGA2QZ6BtXKaN24ActBQkAROOoOv_5qz1NgBFXdJw5rdBzpFznlWV9HmG3xjLzyccsGHFjt0HO81hTPFHGE3U6lYwyBgdDoYRRXy64OVbItcGd.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ulbp2Lyjxo865SY1fBE5A4xm4Xh13F84v-oRQk8CX16MASACzVb4rGufuPyIRVaOU3B1Z6WkTWVzHUT9C534K5K_6Io__bTem2sd3Wx3FX14s59-y-vHJDlToBxFXtVx.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ulbp2Lyjxo865SY1fBE5A4xm4Xh13F84v-oRQk8CX16MASACzVb4rGufuPyIRVaOU3B1Z6WkTWVzHUT9C534K5K_6Io__bTem2sd3Wx3FX14s59-y-vHJDlToBxFXtVx.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/WN81x-pSNF87THujo0pGA2QZ6BtXKaN24ActBQkAROOoOv_5qz1NgBFXdJw5rdBzpFznlWV9HmG3xjLzyccsGHFjt0HO81hTPFHGE3U6lYwyBgdDoYRRXy64OVbItcGd.png
            - 
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/tZeIUuLQ98EoVZKhjwXjnDk2iZ-CuK8moiZ3hOUvWvpetDWDPFUuzumiInH5tVUGDDUE_YPo744RHlstSDiX-axnI5D5VNeLKrP-f18EL-7ElofkWadoNvXTzh7pK0mF.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/qA9NCUB2Pb48GsczkK3tza_Qqdlx-WaHjQNwIiaUCbGHxAS08sCjbPalfUriGJD-9iuIxe70M8lHEYomjHg9BECBV9UYi3gIY2nLcD3sALEKs8iQdkdYAWjyZKPvuPVp.png
            - 
        - 
    - Planning
        - Fundamentals
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/O19cWnGoGw2Ih31INE5KFhQp9sP0jhE3_nopwEG1Xef2uB_0y9GiH6kHLLFP_hftH_tzPVt07-KiQjc3rAsKYW1qjwaEcipuHpj19MAzsSBN97EDGAu8lnb7dHdfAoeO.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/O19cWnGoGw2Ih31INE5KFhQp9sP0jhE3_nopwEG1Xef2uB_0y9GiH6kHLLFP_hftH_tzPVt07-KiQjc3rAsKYW1qjwaEcipuHpj19MAzsSBN97EDGAu8lnb7dHdfAoeO.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/Q62Fm3muAa6WK3oI3nL0mOQgOvBMRCv9OyIn8BJFo0bjUAAo0EaFdoIDhOnikvztBU_dty1BDG8x4I3RgynNwP_QyiYP-UD8RK3ZDM32rleAPyKM-vWd5l1pBmZLl1xb.png
            - 
        - 
        - Classical Planning
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/VVlM_-3gw1xvTHZLsx9eaYZlxX6FLohpEdwlWHVD0LJr9T0XyfPpsXc4ex7cEyMANqwpBzxkRm0ZSPuvZvFl9hKH-QmSHyUa5f5D3Kz82s40SxItMaoJDEs5Jyrybhm0.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/VVlM_-3gw1xvTHZLsx9eaYZlxX6FLohpEdwlWHVD0LJr9T0XyfPpsXc4ex7cEyMANqwpBzxkRm0ZSPuvZvFl9hKH-QmSHyUa5f5D3Kz82s40SxItMaoJDEs5Jyrybhm0.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/m1lk0_lBcFombJInxH8HmLwKha9SoT4441xaMjzlVA2UvRiwjSZLhSemjpSiSJg-MUgSqoBP5Ly-k-615sK-TOldczHSUE1Vj2xrPYu_RcbPRcRq64pHThShMlE8ahBD.png
            - 
        - Algorithms for Classical Planning
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/mCQbgWtrNf5hW6B9omROjO7CaZPJglJO_dpyEupc8alBk-blRPyHSZTnOT9-Vfu2bIT7FJ7y71c8r4KusDOaVn8SzvgKYtbBvDkf-3txDTmINjcWGeEl1DhDhUhJjhDd.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/mCQbgWtrNf5hW6B9omROjO7CaZPJglJO_dpyEupc8alBk-blRPyHSZTnOT9-Vfu2bIT7FJ7y71c8r4KusDOaVn8SzvgKYtbBvDkf-3txDTmINjcWGeEl1DhDhUhJjhDd.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/6F31MylytsygVDIBFYEOxlZEOC2Hi7dCB4lXBDlKeghFpEMjeJ1MHKlRi2iPVc-bywvaJMScXAWhR1cZZTdQcumm808m5HNuXLjCLT3G0Qro3kullSstAzEbWHKLN-j3.png
            - 
        - Heuristics for Planning
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/psH25j1yYfjufcmQxQTYVokDd6BCUnnufILwj21OBUB4B-PTy0gJnQNMJ7R65r6Pmt2xA3d-J_KkduqAAQK-9iNmPPbdQASe8pM0K5sZYMC4Av9L0QqC4f4htn951LDh.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/psH25j1yYfjufcmQxQTYVokDd6BCUnnufILwj21OBUB4B-PTy0gJnQNMJ7R65r6Pmt2xA3d-J_KkduqAAQK-9iNmPPbdQASe8pM0K5sZYMC4Av9L0QqC4f4htn951LDh.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/j4mKvyFSuYj1UEg_1SRqiyNYFNxMXmoPrDTo3N-uLZK4f5ghKcw_qKhFXva4NvIuKZfWzCwD1whqGs8gtCBOkeNJel49sxabB-cZIYtC-rk_HBbWh_WPFnC5j7N5Shz-.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/ZlRuubdA8kEZZC7psTz-Vi03HLCCLH_hVfrWIEw2B7yIb04Q4HXJiVP3pZZN-zXH1JyD3dbfRCOwSc40d_F4sfpa-Jcn9ZFsHa-lorTlJL5U7WzVYJ5-GSdoZvVS_GUO.png
            - 
        - Hierarchical Actions
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/beeQGzbWhriO-fCsvIyAA4_CEDKZgKqX_DOgdrpchHkDFqnVTCOBPIx_qvkyq-pXDKQsRqO2lel6tkjmIlHNvgSzgmWoF4S7rQvmJZ3Y-mtgwhCC-YbT-V6GblQjPrmc.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/beeQGzbWhriO-fCsvIyAA4_CEDKZgKqX_DOgdrpchHkDFqnVTCOBPIx_qvkyq-pXDKQsRqO2lel6tkjmIlHNvgSzgmWoF4S7rQvmJZ3Y-mtgwhCC-YbT-V6GblQjPrmc.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/AIoMHIEfS22QUnJdD8yDg4-3SkuFPtw2pf9dcvQd_roPkxDq9n4DNo-PM6NxGn8gpUaBqByPNjqUWWyj8-MSFfgkCcnZmQN0ng2iOP0pYX43sKW0Wjfo7lbBUMGuK9at.png
            - 
        - Planning and Acting in Non-Deterministic Environments
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/hRPntzEiArHiRNwhkk-gcvYbmyoffn_YAYAj7ZzTtTE6jX3psdKkax9Us3BcbT7LMbRQdkBBzvu86f_n4fnkcWrqVOZznO03X9pMGrgU8dzXBSptKm3n3j7M-1vnUpGo.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/hRPntzEiArHiRNwhkk-gcvYbmyoffn_YAYAj7ZzTtTE6jX3psdKkax9Us3BcbT7LMbRQdkBBzvu86f_n4fnkcWrqVOZznO03X9pMGrgU8dzXBSptKm3n3j7M-1vnUpGo.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/wq59ALDAsIAf3QoA90CCLUtLRkvQeQWGb0uq87rL1TzdwvSBMWy0mhB4V4keItUK1y4f3476r0yMaMbxQgkrrukCIKz4SkDhQxrf9n-nwny-ClxUstCmHxOyVUr9pHlh.png
            - 
        - Time, Schedules and Resources
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/gUcD7zNZM5hJexgIBWv5FKjZMNFjDJ2jKc7A2EgAsx6ZlTgDCJxlM1Y-sLRGtUss2-s2eLwTzCwSfjOuH7_1xrgwv2wUvwiBfPpMDatt2CinJOmbycD-PIycC1mAew4s.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/gUcD7zNZM5hJexgIBWv5FKjZMNFjDJ2jKc7A2EgAsx6ZlTgDCJxlM1Y-sLRGtUss2-s2eLwTzCwSfjOuH7_1xrgwv2wUvwiBfPpMDatt2CinJOmbycD-PIycC1mAew4s.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/H4FgVwXVdt2dJjMJIpxsqDxnH1oICEW41l5E5QxNjXTycqaHXtafcrunU8QrPXT9FoowRuA6JXsUoPGXCMSUfvLsC5M3-Z0OlCykyOu1fK1rfckPFfFbg2UoHiRyLfEU.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/IAwwoHgGf_LbrUqHJVW7zHZsuzgz_cjjBR-1QG4OavsHWaFGXN24iB7ScWu0NUKGKtQcVHO9ir3zKplzJezzhuJKvzwJWyiA1NKOAjop0s4nFhbWtkPh4xy3Tg9FskjQ.png
            - 
        - 
        - Analysis of Planning Approaches
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/cQjVxpR_xcBzYdfIduAF3e7znjQMMhMLEWqSXHxDXG087d9eq6EPgTtDC82Yc_1pQVHDUaLdNkC-Oc5vjBJaatxiTa1iZwHUmbWDEIf6ipCNZ9bFUzrmZ7s17B7TTaOF.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/HTGstf20p4Zquyip4FHoiwwIRPyDSGlOqMIJPRJdfINohajbLXhmtxkXjLiYYVs76GvrbNPTY8VPbmaN09krw55QtirvIeZpxrkclOkDar6D-r3-zS1ElF-IcDflk8w5.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/HTGstf20p4Zquyip4FHoiwwIRPyDSGlOqMIJPRJdfINohajbLXhmtxkXjLiYYVs76GvrbNPTY8VPbmaN09krw55QtirvIeZpxrkclOkDar6D-r3-zS1ElF-IcDflk8w5.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/cQjVxpR_xcBzYdfIduAF3e7znjQMMhMLEWqSXHxDXG087d9eq6EPgTtDC82Yc_1pQVHDUaLdNkC-Oc5vjBJaatxiTa1iZwHUmbWDEIf6ipCNZ9bFUzrmZ7s17B7TTaOF.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/WOGYsz_tOiw6Z5BaN-trklwLdRMzKOAeb3gJxZGSINUd6KsBAPP8UAlRwu6aOtAb00OaW2_Ns7WJq_seezCyOjQAuICKB4yTQiPwGFnwdHTxLk1qOUaLqhGN18bmGSJf.png
            - 
        - Panoramic view and summary
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/x9dIw0OQ_ZJJLCmRkrKbylOQi76KdmgT_1JbnQZkQwBkmiBO-FnZ50Xn_BYR3WZN3xGjZ-bilqmlYPNfgubVMJQ8FWjCou9O2ORluDRBINYSLA0Iwk-Xo03B7oZ0Xtud.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/LZfOXsESbQ-yG9E41ituWG7jLn8y_ujPZJNHkw5acbOQJaXYhziOag3A8T3NzYVjWeeWHTe3Ohiw2zjKrc6DUUbq5_gxmUkWvUbLh4DURrif_vMqMkRRPoTXh3wuQ8Ee.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/LZfOXsESbQ-yG9E41ituWG7jLn8y_ujPZJNHkw5acbOQJaXYhziOag3A8T3NzYVjWeeWHTe3Ohiw2zjKrc6DUUbq5_gxmUkWvUbLh4DURrif_vMqMkRRPoTXh3wuQ8Ee.pnghttps://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/x9dIw0OQ_ZJJLCmRkrKbylOQi76KdmgT_1JbnQZkQwBkmiBO-FnZ50Xn_BYR3WZN3xGjZ-bilqmlYPNfgubVMJQ8FWjCou9O2ORluDRBINYSLA0Iwk-Xo03B7oZ0Xtud.png
            - https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/0elC2ws5qbUDVBrwZ7QvQ2oBUpcIAAKFV77-WOpmSdwC5tTYCioVr4iLZyzFWxSYKtVQkZ2LtkAQnaP1CSkiq9QcXrZ9Eg-j87TVVacG1Ls0CbxEShwSoVrumWBg00_y.png
            - 
        - 
    - 
    - More
    - 
